# DNA (DE)METHYLATION ACROSS EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT IN ACROPORID CORALS

Recent epigenetic studies on model organisms (plants and animals), marine molluscs and on fish underlie the importance of the epigenetic mechanism characterization during development. Thus, our picture of epigenetic regulation in gametes and during embryogenesis of aquatic organisms is really limited to few species. While evidence of non-genetic coral acclimation has started to emerge, very few studies focus on coral gametes and embryos. Here, we characterized for the first time in corals (and outside of model organisms for DNA 5fC and RNA 5mC) epigenetics patterns of DNA 5-methylcytosine (DNA 5mC),  DNA 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (DNA 5hmC), DNA 5-Formylcytosine (DNA 5fC);  RNA 5-methylcytosine  (RNA 5mC), throughout Acroporid embryogenesis for A. hyacinthus, A. cytherea, A. retusa, and A. pulchra. Additionally, we exposed A. hyacinthus to 28°C and 21°C throughout development and we found that a relative increase in temperature did not influence the fertilization rate, but slightly increased developmental speed. Temperature increase also induced a significant number of malformed/dead embryos, particularly during the first cell divisions and during blastulation. Finally, heat stress in the embryonic environment leads to a global dynamic regulation of 5mC (DNA AND RNA) and 5fC, but not of 5hmC. Expanding timeseries to study throughout the complete cycle to adulthood could help us to understand the consequences of these regulations for coral acclimatization and thermal tolerance. 
